just north of Pittsburgh Pennsylvania I
was driving to a place of hope hope
Haven Farm Sanctuary was started in 2013
and offers a beautiful home on seven
acres of land for over a hundred and
twenty-five animals and it seemed like
they all lined up to say hi some wanted
to tell me the story of Hope haven but
since I don't speak mini horse I let the
owner dr. Karen Phillips do it forth I
started hope Haven after becoming a
shelter vet where I do lots of Spain
neuter surgeries to stop the pet
overpopulation problem and I began to
see quite a few farm animals coming in
through the shelter they really weren't
able to care for them properly at the
shelters because they are set up to
handle dogs and cats so I started to
feel that these animals needed a place
of their own these animals come from
various situations like from factory
farms to people disowning them just to
name a few they all come in with various
medical problems so it certainly helps
at the founders of veterinarian many
times people will get chicks and other
small animals as pets for Easter and
then abandon them after the holidays for
those interested in really taking care
of a farm animal hope Haven may have a
solution and we do adopt out our animals
here to qualified homes and we have
gotten some of our geese and ducks
adopted out which allows us to take in
more so we're always thankful for
adopters everyone needs to be
responsible when choosing a pet for
instance pot-bellied pigs may start off
small but a three-year-old pot-bellied
pig and easily reach from 150 to 180
pounds and that is way too much pet pig
for most people I asked Karen what she
wants people to take away from all of us
the biggest thing that I like to spread
with hope Haven is just the idea of
compassion even if you don't want to
make the decision to give up all animal
products I think everyone can agree that
all animals deserve to be treated with
compassion and fairness so to treat
every animal as best as we can and to
make little steps to change to make
animals more important in your life and
also when you come here one of the
biggest reasons i love hope Haven is
that you can really bond with some of
these animals and
them as individuals and I think that's
really important especially for children
or for anyone who's not had a lot of
exposure to farm animals and I couldn't
agree more with all the recent events
not just in the animal world but the
entire world compassion is for sure a
thing we need more with just a small
amount of time I spent there I truly
started seeing these animals as
individuals heck I even made some turkey
friends for more information on Hope
haven and ways you can help please read
this video's description and as always
thanks for thanks for watching